In the Braj region of India, where the Hindu deities Radha and Krishna grew up, the festival is celebrated until Rang Panchmi in commemoration of their divine love for each other.
 The festivities officially usher in spring, with Holi celebrated as a festival of love.
There is a symbolic legend behind the festival.
 In his youth, Krishna despaired whether the fair-skinned Radha would like him because of his dark skin colour.
 His mother Yashoda, tired of his desperation, asks him to approach Radha and ask her to colour his face in any colour she wanted.
 This Radha did, and Radha and Krishna became a couple.
 Ever since, the playful colouring of Radha and Krishna's face has been commemorated as Holi.
[11][31] Beyond India, these legends help to explain the significance of Holi (Phagwah) are common in some Caribbean and South American communities of Indian origin such as Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago.
It is also celebrated with great fervour in Mauritius
There is a symbolic legend to explain why Holi is celebrated as a festival of triumph of good over evil in the honour of Hindu god Vishnu and his devotee Prahlada.
 King Hiranyakashipu father of Prahlada, according to a legend found in chapter 7 of Bhagavata Purana,
[14][15] was the king of demonic Asuras, and had earned a boon that gave him five special powers: he could be killed by neither a human being nor an animal,
 neither indoors nor outdoors, neither at day nor at night, neither by astra (projectile weapons) nor by any shastra (handheld weapons), and neither on land nor in water or air.
 Hiranyakashipu grew arrogant, thought he was God, and demanded that everyone worship only him.
 Hiranyakashipu's own son, Prahlada, however, disagreed. He was and remained devoted to Vishnu.
[27] This infuriated Hiranyakashipu. He subjected Prahlada to cruel punishments, none of which affected the boy or his resolve to do what he thought was right. Finally, Holika, Prahlada's evil aunt, 
tricked him into sitting on a pyre with her.
[5] Holika was wearing a cloak that made her immune to injury from fire, while Prahlada was not.

 As the fire roared, the cloak flew from Holika and encased Prahlada,[27] who survived while Holika burned.
 Vishnu, the god who appears as an avatar to restore Dharma in Hindu beliefs, took the form of Narasimha – half human and half lion (which is neither a human nor an animal), at dusk (when it was neither day nor night),
 took Hiranyakashyapu at a doorstep (which was neither indoors nor outdoors),
 placed him on his lap (which was neither land, water nor air), and then eviscerated and killed the king with his lion claws (which were neither a handheld weapon nor a launched weapon).[35]


The Holika bonfire and Holi signifies the celebration of the symbolic victory of good over evil, of Prahlada over Hiranyakashipu, and of the fire that burned